well hello there I'm Tom Scott as as
herb mentioned after the University of
York although believe me today I am most
definitely not representing them in the
next eight minutes just like Hans
Rosling I have some graphs for you to
start off with this is Twitter this is
the times per day you post a Twitter
versus the amount I could give as you
can see as soon as you pass one tweet
today I couldn't give a rat's ass and
once you pass two a day I couldn't give
a monkey's are the pink line there the
little dotted pink line that's an
exception that's if I'm trying to get
into your pants this is the percentage
of people that understand the difference
between bar charts and line charts it's
kind of ironic because that should
really be a pie graph this is the number
of audience as I've shown this chart too
that's the number of audiences who've
laughed at it that's close enough this
is a pantomime this is the time I intend
to go to bed versus the time I actually
go to bed the blue line the blue line is
normal the red line is if I have an
internet connection this is how awesome
hand zimmer theme tunes our hands immer
is a very very famous film composer he's
been composing for years and years
first of all Pirates of the Caribbean
now not only is that a fantastic
it's now become shorthand for pirates
you play that music and everyone knows
what you're talking about that's quite
awesome number two gladiator
now not only does that bring a tear to
the eye of grown men at the end of the
movie it the whole score that whole
score redefined film music ever since
that came out that's even more awesome
the last hand Zimmer theme tune and you
think I'm joking you think I just put
that in for a laugh but there it is
music by hand Zimmer believe it or not
can you imagine can you imagine what
would have happened if Han Zimmer had
been in a different mood when he'd
composed the theme music for going for
gold
the whole show takes on this epic battle
between nations fail and then suddenly
Henry Kelly walks on that's been but
that's not quite as awesome as if
handsome had been a different mood when
he composed the theme music for
gladiator
now let's welcome your host and recarey
I think we can all agree that that's
significantly more awesome than either
of those this is how much the DJ talks
versus how much I want them to dye the
red line is me the blue line is
Morrissey - drums no cymbal fall off a
cliff yes the dunk exactly right
you see you'd think that but then we
actually went and tested it it's Matt a
friend of mine what's black and white
and red all over the battery - blender
wait for it yes
this is how I spend on an idea versus
the chance of it succeeding not that I'm
bitter I spent I spent hours now is
putting together a really complicated
video about Apple inventing a heads-up
display nothing I spend one two hours
putting together a website that recovers
deleted Twitter messages from anyone's
account goes everywhere
fantastic Gapminder Gapminder hasn't
hands Rosling's Gapminder is an amazing
thing um you can chart so many things
like what I've done here as you all know
what's happening tomorrow this is the
Eurovision Song Contest as you can see
what we have here is 1957 the dates at
the bottom left those red countries
they're the Western countries there the
traditional Eurovision countries and as
time goes on that's on the x-axis we've
got the number of entries they've got
the the y-axis there the y-axis is the
five-year rolling average of their score
took me hours to put this together right
1994 look at that see all those on the
left of blue and the Greens they're all
the old Vulcan state and the Soviet
returned the Soviet states are all
broken apart and they've come into
Eurovision in 1994 but look on the right
all the red countries they're still all
over the places no still no pattern
there other than they've been there
longer but watch the late 90s to the
early 2000s tele voting appears tele
voting appears in the Eurovision Song
Contest watch those red dots on the
right down they go till they go not only
not only do we have block voting there's
the United Kingdom 2007 look back here
if I can grab that little thing there
look at this in 1980 in the 1980s we're
right at the top that's Katrina and the
waves happening there
the only the only one higher than us the
on one higher than us is island just
about here there they are at that point
the Irish broadcaster is pretty much
bankrupt but watch this now when we go
down we go televoting came in and I
can't think of anything we could have
done around 2002 it could have affected
our standing on the world stage as much
as that you know what else could
possibly have that effect missus people
who are red-green color blind
as we can see from this graph everyone
who is red-green colorblind is a normal
productive member of society this is how
long I've got left in time unemployed
it's not a joke I just thought I'd
mention it this is Carly's law
Connolly's law as time goes on if you
leave a man in a room alone with a tea
cosy the probability that he will wear
it on his head approaches one I have
some evidence of this I have some
evidence
this is Richard this is a friend of mine
I left him in a room with a tea cosy and
a hidden camera as you can see at one
minute he has noticed the tea cosy but
at five minutes he's still serving a
head he's not going for it then all of a
sudden seven minutes BAM there it is
there it is and by eight minutes by
eight minutes he is raising the roof and
performing papal blessings it's amazing
this
this is the last one this is the final
one on the x-axis is the amount of
effort on the y-axis is the amount of
Awesome if it's in the red zone you do
it if it's in the blue zone you don't do
it that's not a joke it's just a way to
live your life thank you very much Ivan
Tom Scott goodnight